= Data storage on the blockchain =

There are several ways to store data on top of the Bitcoin blockchain. #### Value Encode data in the number of satoshis being sent to an address.

==== Fake Addresses ====

Encode data in the Address itself. Because the Address encodes data of your choice it cannot have been the result of a derivation from a private key (with extremely high probability) and thus any coins sent to such addresses are lost (or &quot;burnt&quot;).

==== Vanity Addresses ====

Brute force through keys until you get an address that encodes your data, extremely resource intensive and impractical for anything bigger than a couple of bytes.

==== 1 of N Multisig Address ====

These are more complex Bitcoin addresses that require one key out of N to redeem. We can use only one key as a real key (like with a standard address) and encode 32 bytes of data in the remaining <code>N-1</code> keys.

==== OP_RETURN ====

OP_RETURN is a command in the Bitcoin scripting language that was specifically added to allow the inclusion of metadata on the blockchain. Currently 40 bytes of information can be added to a transaction using OP_RETURN. However, there is a live debate about the size of OP_RETURN outputs and it seems possible that the size will be increased to 80 bytes in the foreseeable future.

==== Input Sequence ====

This is an unused 32 bit integer .

==== Coinbase ====

Miners can include up to 100 bytes worth of data in a coinbase transaction.

== Comparison of Data Storage Methods ==

{|
!Method
!Pros
!Cons
|-
|'''Value'''
|Very Simple
|'''Expensive''', temporary burden on the network
|-
|'''Vanity''' Address
|Simple
|Resource intensive, '''impractical''' for more than a few bytes
|-
|'''Fake''' Address
|Simple, 20 bytes
|Lost coins, permanent burden on the network
|-
|1 of N '''Multisig''' Address
|<code>32x(N-1)</code> bytes
|More '''complex''', temporary burden on the network
|-
|'''OP_RETURN'''
|40 bytes, no burden on the network
|
|-
|'''Sequence'''
|
|Only 4 bytes
|-
|'''Coinbase'''
|Up to 100 bytes
|Can only be used by '''Miners'''
|}

